Welcome back everyone.
In this lecture we're going to talk about python lists lists are ordered sequences that can hold a variety
of object types.
They use square brackets and commas to separate objects in the list.
For example here we see a list of five numbers where we have each integer separated by a comma instead
of square brackets list support indexing and slicing just as we did with strings.
Lists can be nested and also have a variety of useful methods that been called off of them.
Let's get started by helping over to the Adam text editor and playing around flips and exploring these
concepts further.
OK let's start off by creating a list.
I'm going to say my list is equal to.
And then we'll say one two three.
Something you shouldn't do is use list as your variable name.
It's really tempting because it's so straightforward but list is actually a built in keyboard in Python
so don't do this so don't use list you something more unique like my list.
OK.
So I set my list equal to 1 2 3.
Let's go ahead and print out my list save that one Python example at PI.
And now I see 1 2 3.
Just like a code for string.
I can also check the length of a list to see how many items are in my list.
So when I run this I get back three because there's three items in my list and if I add in maybe some
more numbers.
So if I add in a bunch of ones and I run this again then it says hey you have seven items in your list
so one two three four five six seven.
OK so that's way you can check the length of the list and see how you can construct the list.
We should also know is that a list can actually hold mixed data types.
So for example I could start off with an integer then put in a floating point number and then even put
in a string like hello.
And my list is not going to complain at all.
Python has no problem holding multiple data types inside of lists.
Integer float string doesn't matter.
A list can hold it.
Now indexing and slicing works the exact same way like the strings.
For example if I wanted to grab Hello off this list.
Well I just kind of read the index positions 0 1 2.
So in opposition to the third item in this list is hello so I can say my list.
Square brackets to.
And then when I run this I get back hello as the output.
OK so let's try this with another example say A B C D.
So see if you can practice grabbing a certain letter from this list.
Try grepping B.
So it's kind of over 0 1 pass and 1 and then you get BIAZON boy right here B.
And then I can also do slicing.
So let's imagine I wanted to grab.
Let's go ahead and add one more letter here in this list.
Let's say I want to grab a b c d.
That sub list or that slice of the list will I want to start off next to one and then I want to go up
to but not including the last.
So that's 0 1 2 3 4.
So that's slicing the exact same way we used to do it with strings.
Except now we're operating on a list.
So in one Python example out pi I get back BCT because I'm starting it in additional 1 and then going
up to but not including in solution 4.
So that's going to be B C D or 1 2 and 3 now.
Begin to cover some basic list methods so I have my list.
ABC the E.
Let's imagine I wanted to add an item to this list.
What I could do is I could just say my list dot append open close parentheses and they just type in
what I want to append to the very end of the list so I can say Z and I'm going to just print off my
list here and then when I run this I get back ABC and then Z.
So what's happening here.
I'm saying my list is ABC the.
And then I say OK grab that list and using this append method.
Add a Z to the end of that list and then print out my list.
Note that I'm not doing this.
I'm not reassigning my list to be equal to my list thought append because append actually occurs what's
known as in place so it doesn't return anything.
And in fact if you were to run this you would get back none because this is actually it's not returning
anything to be assigned here.
Instead we just say my list append and again that sort of return idea will make a lot more sense when
we create our own functions and own methods.
But right now just keep that in the back of your mind.
OK so we just saw how we can append the end of a list.
What if I wanted to insert maybe somewhere else in the list.
Well I could just use the insert method and then insert.
It's going to take two parameters.
The first one is going to be the index of where you want to insert your item so append only goes the
end of a list.
But if you want to put something at another in the expedition's it says the first or zero in next to
the second.
You can say index 0 comma and then whatever you want to insert.
So let's insert that Z there again.
So here I am saying my list thought.
Insert 0 0.
Save that and now when I say my list here.
Notice now I get back z in the zero position and everything's been shifted over to make that change.
So that's the difference between insert and append append that will just go to the end of the list insert
will go wherever you say so.
So index 0 1 to whatever.
OK now let's imagine I want to remove things from a list.
Well I can use the pop method for that so I can say oops my list got pop and then I can pass in the
in the composition of what I want to remove.
So if I want to move the first element in the list the index which is 0 then that's going to be a.
So it's a pop at this exhibition 0 and then that actually returns an item that's popped.
So it's a popped item is equal to my list the pop.
So then I'll print my list and then also the pop item and I'm actually going to print my list twice.
So we'll see.
Copy and paste that here.
So what I'm going to do is say create my list.
Print out my list.
Pop off the item index zero and save that pop item.
Then print out what mindless looks like and then print out the pop item so let's see what happens.
So I get back e b c d e.
Which makes sense is just printing out that list.
That's from line 2.
Then they pop off the item and it saves the pop item.
And now I've been able to successfully remove in expedition's zero BCT.
And then when I print out my pop item that return back a by default if you don't supply a number here
if you just say that pop pop off the last item in the list.
So when I run this again though this all get back here.
He has the popped off item.
So again no exposition I'll pop off the list.
You can always provide any particular index for this and you want to if I want to pop off an expedition
3 just from that then it goes 0 1 2 3 and it pops off that for me.
OK.
So that's a pen insert and pop.
The last thing I want you to be aware of is you can actually have nested lists.
So let's go ahead and create an example of that.
So I'm going to create a list of say 0 1 2 and I'm going to call this my list 1 and then I'll say my
list to is three four five and then we'll say Maylis three is 670 and then I'll say megaliths is equal
to a list of my list on my list too and my list 3.
Save that and let's print out mega list.
So I saved that and I'm going to run this and those here now I and that's nested list.
So I have three items in mega list and each of those items is a list itself.
So that would mean if I were to check the length of mega list they'll actually just report back three
not nine because as far as this megaliths is concerned it only has three items in it that each of those
items has its own other set of three items.
So just keep that awareness as we talk about Nest lists.
Now let's imagine I want to grab an item from this list.
So I want to grab.
Let's say the number seven.
How would I do that.
Well the number 7 is inside of my list 3 which is inside a mega list.
So the first thing I need to do is actually grab my list three from my list.
So it's going to be 0 1 2.
So my list 3 is an expedition too.
So let's grab that.
Well say square brackets too off of make list and when to run that now I get back six seven eight.
So then what I could do is another set of indexing to grab 7.
So it's going to be at 0 1 so that I pass and one and then I get back just the number seven.
So notice what's happening here mega list of indexing first for that internal list that I'm indexing
again for that actual number.
So this is known as stack indexing with a nested list.
OK.
So that's the basics of this.
Again we talked about nested lists.
The pop a pen insert methods as well as just how to slice an index from a list.
OK we'll see you at the next lecture.